TOM: Everyone on the plane is unconscious. You are the only one who can land the plane.
And you have never flown a plane from your life. What are you doing?
I am at 'Virtual Aviation's' simulator of a million pounds, here in Cambridge,
with Morag and Matt, and my job is simple.
Land the plane, and show how you can do it.
You know, just in case ...
And do not forget that this is part of Comic Relief's 'School of YouTube'.
Everyone here present sacrifices his free time to make this possible,
but also remember that we are doing this to raise money for children around the world.
Children who have limited or no access to education at all.
Details on how you can help are now in view,
and if you can donate, please do that.
All right! Let's land this thing!
GORDON BURNS: Tom, approaching London Heathrow,
very heavy side winds that fight him.
TOM: Whoa! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa ...
GORDON BURNS: So wrestling with the steering column.
Returning the steering column to the center stops the rolling of the aircraft,
He has to send the plane in the other direction to get back on course.
TOM: I'm too high! Get the power off!
GORDON BURNS: In the wind wobbling, he returns the thrust
to steer down the nose of the attendant.
But I think that was too much. He is flying too low.
COMPUTER: Pull up!
TOM: I try!
GORDON BURNS: There is the warning system that orders him to go up,
and he has the nose up again, but is it enough?
Is he coming down the runway?
He is almost on the ground, he is in front of the runway and he leans to the left.
TOM: That is technically on the runway!
GORDON BURNS: Not on the runway. He must be glad that there are no buildings there,
but he has a problem, and I do not know if he realizes that.
TOM: [laughs]
TOM: Why ... why do not we stop?
GORDON BURNS: But he accidentally turned off the automatic brakes,
so he will not come to a standstill.
TIM TAYLOR, INSTRUCTOR: And we have crashed. [laughter]
GORDON BURNS: But not a bad attempt from Tom.
Morag follows. Does the hair get better?
A number of lights next to the runway help her at height.
When they are white, she knows that she is too high. Red means that she is too low.
But she has trouble with the side winds.
She just has to stay calm and bring the 737 back on course, which is fine.
And she will be helped by the height and direction meters.
COMPUTER: Too slow! [Alarm] Pull up!
GORDON BURNS: She sends too much,
and she has to go up again.
And now she has done too much of that, she is now too high.
With the runway for her - there is' ie, she now has to slow down to land,
so she's in trouble here.
This plane is currently getting away from her,
automatic explanation for emergencies is now going to be a bit too furious against her.
We are on our way to the runway and there is only one way this flight can end,
and it is not good.
Now Matt sends the plane,
and it looks good at this early stage.
The flight-route instrument shows him that he is almost exactly on the right route.
GORDON BURNS: And now he needs the little ...
MATT: Oh hello! [laughs]
follow purple diamonds with the steering column
and that will keep him on course.
And he is currently on course. He uses the thrust lever very skillfully
to change its height. He remains calm.
Small changes to his route bring him on the exact route.
And he goes straight to the runway, and he seems content with that.
This is a very good approach, the job gets the job done cautiously.
Is he going to miss the runway, probably not, he is a bit off to the left ... and ...
that was probably the wing that hit the runway, but it is on the ground.
And now he uses the rudder pedals to send the plane back to the runway.
And that, Matt, was a very good attempt.
So at the end of the round, at the end of the game,
Matt is clearly the winner.
MATT: I think I put it to the ground!
TIM TAYLOR, INSTRUCTOR: Well, yes, you did! That was the best attempt!
MATT: Yaaayyy! [bright smile]
TIM TAYLOR, INSTRUCTOR: You are the only one who has been able to land on the runway.
[laughter]
TOM: If ever you are the only one who can land the plane, that's how to do it.
And if you've learned something, please,
help someone who can not.
Six and a half euros a Zambian orphan can go to school for a month,
and he could even get a meal there every day. Perhaps the only ones they get.
So please, pick up the phone, click on the link now, and donate if you can.
Thanks to 'Virtual Aviation', thanks to Gordon Burns for the voice-over,
and thanks to Comic Relief for organizing all this.
That is how you land a plane in case of emergency.
Subtitled by Wauteurz